Nagios / Check_MK check for Linux LVM2 states.


Why this plugin:

Reason1:
Be able to monitor LVM snapshot age.
Linux LVM does not have a toolset that allows you the existance of outdated snapshots
left over from aborted snapshots, or quick tracking of the leftover capacity of the 
snapshot reserve. If the reserve is exceeded, your volume will fully block and not be usable.
Worse comes to worse when adding the human factor that shows most people do not know how
to calculate snapshot volume IO. I've seen cases where snapshot reservations of 5G were made
for volumes with daily change volumes of 0.5TB.

Reason2: 
Add better LVM error detection:
Linux LVM monitoring is very shallow when compared to the original LVM implementation 
used by IBM or the one in HP-UX (this is the one that Systina used as reference for their LVM)
There are the so-called LVM monitors, but these only cover some of the LVM layers, rely on
uevent and there is not really anything happening as a result of catastrophic failures.
From standard OS level, you cannot get a reasonable monitoring alert in case there is some 
failure. Also, in most cases the LVM2 object states do not change when they should.
I.e. if you remove all disks a LV will most probably never end up in an unavailable state.
Instead the status command outputs will adjust to expose the crap that is at LVM2's userspace-
happy core, meaning you cannot even query LVM status in some failure modes.



For feature 1 the implementaion was stuck for months since the LVM toolset doesn't allow 
querying snapshot ages and there's no way to be smart about it (short of encoding a date 
into the name with is not helpful AT.ALL.!)
Today I figured the very easy solution:

Start with a local check that goes warn if there is a snapshot.
Use downtimes for the time where snapshots are expected. 


Check_mk check items would be all logical volumes on a host (can be many 100)
Use grouping to turn into per-vg services (like ipmi)
flag an LV red if it has a snapshot (downtimes must apply on per-item level!)

Problems:
Cloud envs might see 1000s of lv deletions per day and 100s of snapshots, so the item 
should be the VG with all smarts being in the "black box" level and only textual message
used to report them.
If that is done, no extra alert will be scheduled by nagios once 2nd failure occurs.


